Google designs custom integrated circuits including a hardware security chip called Titan, that's currently being deployed on both servers and peripherals. This approach enables Google server machines to use cryptographic signatures to ensure they only boot with the correct software. 
Google's infrastructure provides cryptographic privacy and integrity for remote procedure call data on the network. This protocol is how Google services communicate with each other and allows the infrastructure to automatically encrypt RPC traffic in transit between data centers. To help ensure that code is as secure as possible, Google stores its source code centrally and requires two part review of any new code.
Google also provides its developers with sophisticated libraries that keep them from introducing new classes of security bugs. Additionally, Google also runs a bug bounty program in which anyone who was able to discover and inform us of bugs in our infrastructure or applications is paid a reward. 
Google services that wants to make themselves available on the Internet, register themselves with an infrastructure service called the Google Front End, GFE. GFE checks incoming network connections for correct certificates and best practices. It also supports strong encryption and amps protection against denial of service attacks. The sheer scale of its infrastructure enables Google to absorb challenging attacks such as denial of service or DoS. Behind the GFEs, Google has a multi-tear multi-layer denial of service protection that further reduce the risk of any DoS impact. 
Monitoring and logging enables application analysis, network forensics, access patterns, performance profiling and more. 
When you build an application with On-Premise infrastructure, you're responsible for the physical security of the hardware, and the premises in which it is housed. The encryption of the data on disk, the integrity of your network, and the security of the content stored in your application. 
When calling a Google API to retrieve data, API requests are done via a REST service call. To safeguard your information, authentication information must be included with these requests. It is very common for legal or regulatory requirements to require a vulnerability assessment or penetration tests, against your Cloud resources. For example, PCI DSS security requirements will require this to be done as a matter of course.
Google Cloud Security Scanner and Forseti Security provide some security assessment services.
Cloud Armor works in conjunction with Global HTTP/HTTPs load balancing and enables you to deploy and customize defenses for your Internet-facing applications. it is for additional features such as IPV4 and IPV6, whitelisting or blacklisting in defense against application aware attacks for example cross-site scripting and SQL injection.
Google leverages all purpose-built servers and network equipment to help reduce the security footprint. All servers running in GCP are homogeneous custom-built servers designed with security in mind. Google servers don't include unnecessary components such as video cards, chip-sets or peripheral connectors and leverage the Titan Security Chip mentioned earlier in the trusted server boot process. All Linux stacks are stripped down in hardened versions, meaning they are continually monitored for binary modifications. 
Standard access logs traditionally do not show access by the cloud provider. And GCP Cloud audit logs provide visibility into the actions of your own administrators. However, this audit trail typically stops once your cloud provider support or engineering team is engaged.  if needing to export large amounts of data, would be to leverage the Google Transfer Appliance. Which allows hundreds of terabytes or more of data to be exported to a single appliance. 
