When you migrate to Cloud Identity, you must verify that you own the domain name and you create an account for each of your users. You can then manage all users from the Google Admin console. The admin console provides a central management location or a single plane of glass to manage your user's identity and access permissions across your entire domain.
Consumer accounts such as personal Gmail accounts or consumer accounts with work email IDs are unmanaged accounts and are outside of the GCP Admin control. This can be a security issue if developers in your organization use unmanaged accounts to use GCP resources. To resolve this problem, you can create free Cloud Identity accounts separate from the G Suite accounts to manage these users. You can then manage all of your users across the entire domain from one place by simply assigning roles to users and groups through the GCP Console, IAM and Admin section. 
Google Cloud Directory Sync can help simplify provisioning and deprovisioning user accounts. Google Cloud Directory Sync tool can synchronize G-Suite accounts to match the data in an existing Active Directory or LDAP. Your Google users, groups and shared contacts are synchronized to match the information in your AD-LDAP server. 
ZERO TRUST means that each machine in the network is treated as a separate entity with its own security zone, and all the network and firewall scrutiny that goes along with that assumption. CROSS FOREST TRUST communication is used instead of duplicating records [because Kerberos and other common authentication protocols often cannot authenticate across forests on their own].
An example of heavy interaction would include the use of virtual desktop infrastructure environments, which require a near constant flow of information between on-premises resources and resources deployed on Google Cloud. When resources across environments are closely coupled, the overhead of constant communication between separate forests may be prohibitive. In this case, we recommend using a single Active Directory forest and sharing it across environments.
two mutually exclusive authentication types supported are Google authentication [Google password is stored within Google's infrastructure] and Single Sign-On authentication [Google also supports SAML too, an OpenID compliant Single Sign-On systems. Using this method, Google operates as a service provider and your SSO system operates as an identity provider. This option means you can use your own authentication mechanism and manage your own credentials. This method will also work with hundreds of applications straight out of the box. SSO configuration in GCP is a relatively simple process. In your Google Admin Console, "Admin dot Google dot com" tick the checkbox marked, "Setup SSO with third party identity provider box" provide the required three URL's. So, sign-in, sign-out, and password change, and upload your certificate file]. 
Multiple domains can be associated with your organizations account. When you first sign up for a Cloud Identity domain, the first domain name becomes the primary domain for your organization. Other domains can be added using the admin console. However, you must own each domain and verify your ownership when adding it. can add up to 600 domains to your organization's Google account. Security best practice = 2SV or 2 step-verification on accounts.

/Lab tasks-
Sign up for a free edition of Cloud Identity. 
Create your Cloud Identity account and your first admin user. 
Then verify your domain for use with Cloud Identity. 
Create Cloud Identity user accounts. 
Assign a Cloud Identity user access to a GCP project. And utilize groups to simplify user management and lower operational overhead.

can use both Cloud Identity and GSuite services to manage your users across your domain. 
cloud identity can work with any domain name that is able to receive email.
