Google Cloud Platform provides resource containers such as organization, folders and projects which allow you to group and hierarchically organize cloud resources. This hierarchical organization lets you easily manage common aspects of your resources, like access control and configuration settings. The Resource Manager enables you to programmatically manage these resource containers.  [privacy reviewer]
Folders allow you to group these resources, for example, on a per department basis. While a folder can contain multiple child folders, or other resources, each folder or resource can only have exactly one parent. Folders are used to group resources that share common IAM policies. 
Projects however are required in GCP, and any resource that is deployed must be associated with a project. Projects provide many management related features such as the ability to track resources, and quota usage, assign projects to different billing accounts, assign manager permissions and credentials, and selectively enable specific services and APIs at the project level. 
[if an application running on a Compute Engine instance needs to read a file from Cloud Storage, a service account with Cloud Storage object for your role can be assigned to the Compute Engine instance. An application running on that instance would then be permitted to read a file from Cloud Storage] By default, when using service accounts within GCP, for example, from Compute Engine or App Engine, Google automatically manages the keys for service accounts. The GCP managed keys are rotated approximately once a week. However, if you want to be able to use service accounts outside of GCP, or a different rotation period, it is possible to manually create and manage service account keys. 
Labels are created in the form of a key value pair and are used to help you organize and manage your cloud resources. There are many reasons you might want to use labels. To distinguish between resources owned by different teams for budgeting or billing purposes team or cost center labels. To label the different components of large distributed applications, like front end or dashboard component labels. To show which systems in your network are for production use and which are for testing environment labels. To indicate the state of an instance of a resource. For example, if it is in the active instance or one that is ready to be archived, state labels. To distinguish between virtual machines, which may otherwise be virtually identical, VM labels. 
IAM roles: primitive [owner,editor,viewer], predefined/curated [instanceadmin,browser], custom [privacy reviewer]
[the instance admin predefined role provides the permissions needed to manage Google Compute Engine instances. The predefined browser role, for example, provides read access to browse the hierarchy for a project including the folder, organization, and Cloud IAM policy. However, the browser role does not include permission to view resources in the project. Be aware that once custom roles are created, you must manage the permissions granted for them. If, for example, a new data storage service is created in the future, that will need to be audited. Permissions for that new service would need to be added to your privacy reviewer role]
When new permissions, features or services are added to GCP, your custom role will not be updated automatically. Audit logs record project level permission changes and these should be used to audit any policy changes made. To perform the audit, export the audit logs to Google Sloud Storage or bit query. Exporting logs to Cloud Storage can also allow audit logs to be stored indefinitely. 
The Cloud IAM recommender evaluates only role grants that were made at the project level and that have existed for at least 90 days. It does not evaluate any of the following items, conditional role grants, role grants for Google managed service accounts, or access controls that are separate from Cloud IAM. Recommender will suggest that you revoke an existing role when it has been in effect for 90 days or more and when it has not been used within the past 90 days. Recommender uses machine learning to predict when permissions may be needed by a particular role in the future. If those permissions are not currently enabled, recommender will suggest adding them. 
Q
Cloud IAM Objects that can be used to organize resources in GCP are organizations, roles, members and folders.
Projects in GCP provide many management-related features, including the ability to track and manage quota usage, selectively enable specific services and APIs. not- Balance server load between different Projects. Keep on-prem AD/LDAP accounts synced up with user's GCP resources.
a less restrictive parent policy may override a more restrictive child policy.
