can control individual ingress and egress traffic for compute resources using firewall rules. Since VPC networks can be global in GCP, firewall rules are also global.
2 default implied rules: The first rule permits all outgoing connections to any IP address. The second implied rule blocks all incoming traffic. 
There are a few firewall rule best practices to help secure instances running in compute engine. First, keep your firewall rule in line with the model of least privilege. Create rules to explicitly allow only the traffic necessary for your applications to communicate. Second, it is always best to minimize direct exposure to the internet. To do this, avoid having allow firewall rules defined within the source or destination range set to 0.0.0.0/0. Third, to prevent port and protocols from being exposed accidentally, create a firewall rule with the lowest priority that blocks all outbound traffic for all protocols and ports. This rule will override the implied egress rules that allows all outbound traffic, and instead lock down your computer engine instance from making connections. You should then create higher priority firewall rules to specify computer engine instances to open required ports and protocols. This helps prevent ports and protocols from being exposed unnecessarily. 
Another best practice is to adopt a standard naming convention for firewall rules. The exact format is not critically important, so just create a standard and be consistent. 
When applying firewall rules, you should consider using service account firewall rules instead of tag-based rules. The reason for this is that tag-based firewall rules can be applied by any user who has compute engine instance admin role, but a service account requires a user to have explicit cloud IM rights to be used. 
The three Google-managed profiles are compatible, modern and restricted. + custom SSL Policy
VPC peering allows you to create connectivity across two non-overlapping VPC networks. VPC peering enables the resources in these networks to communicate across private RFC 1918 space, reducing exposure to attack.
A Cloud Router enables you to dynamically exchange routes between your VPC network an on-premise networks by using Border Gateway Protocol or BGP. 
A dedicated interconnect provides a direct physical connection between your on-premise network and your GCP VPC networks. Partner interconnect provides connectivity between your on-premises network and GCP VPC networks through a supported service provider.
Access Context Manager is a tool with an API that allows Google Cloud organization administrators to define fine-grained attribute-based access control for projects and resources in Google Cloud. access policy acts as a container for access levels. access level is a set of attributes such as an IP address, device type, or user identity that are assigned to request based on their origin.
VPC Flow Logs will only include traffic seen by VM. For example, if outbound traffic was blocked by an egress rule, it will be seen and logged, but inbound traffic blocks by an ingress rule not reaching a VM, will not be seen and not to be logged. For forensics, real-time security analysis, and expense optimization. can view Flow Logs in Stackdriver Logging, and you can also export logs to any destination that Stackdriver Logging exports supports. For example, Cloud Pub/Sub, BigQuery, etc. Flow Logs are aggregated by connection at five second intervals from Compute Engine VMs and exported in real-time. By subscribing to Cloud Pub/Sub, you can analyze Flow Logs using real-time streaming APIs. You can enable or disable VPC Flow Logs per VPC network subnet. When you enable VPC Flow Logs, you enable for all VMs in a subnet. VPC Flow Logs is natively built into the networking stack of the VPC network infrastructure. There is no extra delay and no performance penalty in routing the logged IP packets to their destination, but some systems generate a large number of logs which can increase cost in Stackdriver. 
Q
5 firewall rules parameters - source or destination, direction, action, protocol, priority.
Every VPC network functions as a distributed firewall wherefirewall rules are defined at the network level. Correct! GCP firewall rules exist not only between your instances and other networks, but also between individual instances within the same network.
