Monitoring, Logging, Auditing and Scanning
..
Security Command Center can help to discover, mitigate, and prevent attacks on your applications and data.
- gives centralised visibility into your cloud resources
- uncover machines that are being used for malicious purposes
- integrates with both google and third-party tools
- helps meet compliance requirements
- scans for assets at least once a day

Stackdriver is a multi-cloud monitoring and management service that aggregates metrics, logs, and events. It provides a rich set of observable tools that speed root cause analysis, and reduce meantime to resolution. 
Monitoring: platform, system and app metrics; uptime/healtthchecks; dashboards; alerts.
Debugger: production debug snapshots, conditional snapshots [the code does not stop when the break point is hit. Instead the code keeps running and a snapshot of the application state is made. The snapshot can then be investigated to determine the state of the application.]
Trace: latency reporting, per-url latency sampling
Error reporting
Profiler: continuous CPU and heap profiling, broad platform support
Logging: platform, system and app logs; logs search/view/filter; logs-based metrics [log retention]

Lab1: Create service accounts with appropriate role assignments so that the agents installed on your VMs can write log entries and metrics into Stackdriver, install and validate the Linux Stackdriver agents for logging and monitoring, and install the Windows Stackdriver agents for logging and monitoring. 
Lab2: view logs using a variety of filtering mechanisms, exclude log entries, and disable log ingestion, and export logs and run reports against exported logs. create and report on logging metrics and create a stack driver account used to monitor several GCP projects. create a metrics dashboard and create and use an alerting policy. 

Cloud Audit Logging contains 3 audit logs: admin activity, system events, data access
Lab3: view audit logs in the activity page, view and filter audit logs in Stackdriver, retrieve log entries with G Cloud, and export audit logs. 

*Forseti Security [security at scale] 
- modules: inventory [saves snapshot of resources], scanner [to compare role-based security policies and save violations if any], enforcer [compares current state to desired state, makes changes if any differences are found], explain [provides visibility], notifier [dispatch a variety of messages through various channels like Email, Slack, and Cloud Storage. and various formats].
Lab4: install a Forseti Security tool, use Forseti Inventory to collect and store information about a Google Cloud Platform resource, and then leverage the Forseti Scanner to audit Cloud resources and output any rule violations. 


Q)
Stackdriver: TRUE - Stackdriver Logging Agent can be installed on both Compute Engine and AWS EC2 instances. You can analyze Stackdriver log data in BigQuery. False - While Stackdriver logging is not built-in to most GCP services, you can easily add it for a reasonable fee. Stackdriver retains logs for an indefinite period of time. 
Cloud Audit logging: TRUE - Cloud Audit Logging maintains three audit logs for each project, folder, and organization. Enabling Data Access logs might result in your project being charged for the additional logs usage. Unlike Stackdriver logs, you cannot export Cloud Audit log entries to BigQuery. False - Data Access audit logs record data-access operations on resources that are publicly shared. 
Forseti Security: TRUE - If something in your system changes unexpectedly, Forseti Security can revert a potentially compromised resource back to a known safe state. False - Forseti "Explain" shows you where your applications may be inadequately protected from DDoS attacks. Forseti "Enforcer" scans user activity and locks the account of users suspected of misusing their access.
