A service account is an identity that a resource such as a VM instance that can be used to run API requests on your behalf. 
When you create a new service account, it can be assigned to instances in exactly the same way as the default service account. The only difference is user-managed service accounts do not use the access scope concept. Instead, permissions are controlled through the IAM roles assigned to the account. Applications running on incidences associated with the service account can then make authenticated requests to other Google APIs using the service account identity. 
It is important to remember that access scopes only apply on a per instance basis. You set access scopes when creating an instance and the access scopes persist for only the life of that instance.
3 access scopes: default [only read-only access to storage as well as access to Stackdriver Logging and monitoring], full, selective [each API]
What if the instance does not have a public IP address? Solution = Bastion host [create a second VM with a public IP address in the same network as the instance you want to connect to. Then, connect to the Bastion host and from there, SSH to the private VM. Be sure to harden the Bastion host and ensure the follow rules to limit the source IPs are able to connect to the Bastion host and then only allow SSH traffic to private instances from the Bastion], better practice would be to use a VPN or some other more secure form of connection such as Cloud Interconnect for ordinary activity. Only use SSH with the Bastion host as the maintenance avenue of the last resort. 
2 organisation constraint types: list and boolean [enable or disable].
An interesting use case is that of computes trusted image projects constraint. By default, uses in your project can create persistent disks or copy images using either public images or any other images that your project members can access through IAM roles. However you may want to restrict your projects to only use images that contain approved software to create boot disks that meet your policy or security requirements. The trusted images policy can be used to enforce which images can be used in your organization. This allows you to host organization approved hardened images in your GCP environment. 
Use Cloud Audit Log in to generate logs for API operations performed in Google Compute Engine. Audit Logs help you determine who did what, where, and when. Specifically, Audit Logs track how your Compute Engine resources are modified and accessed within your Google Cloud platform projects for auditing purposes. 
Shielded VM offers verifiable integrity of your Compute Engine VM instances. So you can be confident that you're instances haven't been compromised by boot level or kernel level malware or rootkits, or your secrets exposed and used by others. Each time your VM starts up, secure boot make certain that the software loaded is authentic and unmodified by verifying that the firmware has been digitally signed with Google's Certificate Authority. 
Shielded VM instances use Unified Extensible Firmware Interface, or UEFI, which securely manages the certificates that contain the keys used by the software manufacturers to sign the system firmware, the system bootloader and any binaries loaded. UEFI, verifies the digital signature of each boot component in turn against the secure store of approved keys. If that component isn't properly signed, or isn't signed at all, it isn't allowed to run. 

Google Cloud Platform encrypts all customer data at rest without any action required from you, the customer. Google uses a common cryptographic library, Keyczar, to implement encryption consistently across almost all Google Cloud Platform products. 
encryption keys: google - managed or custom - managed or customer - supplied
custom managed: allows to manage KEKs- generate, rotation period, expire

Lab: Create an encryption key and wrap it with the Google Compute Engine RSA public key certificate, encrypt a new persistent disk with your own key, attach the disk to a Compute Engine instance and create a snapshot from an encrypted disk. 
