Importancce: IAM > ACL
Signed URLs provide a great way to give time-limited read or write access to anyone in possession of the URL, regardless of whether they have a Google account. 
Using a policy document for an HTML form post requires the following. First, correct a policy document for your form ensuring it is UTF-8 encoded. Second, encode the policy document as a base64 representation. Third, sign your policy document using RSA with SHA-256 encoding using the secret key provided to you in the Google Cloud platform console. This step will then create a message digest. Four next, we want to encode the message digest as a base64 representation and five add the policy document information to the HTML form.

Lab: Utilize CSEK to encrypt files in cloud storage. Rotate encryption keys.
Lab: manage keys and encrypted data using Cloud key management storage or KMS, create key rings and crypto keys, set a default encryption key for Storage bucket, encrypt an object with a Cloud KMS key, rotate encryption keys, manually perform server-side encryption with KMS keys.

Tables, rows, and columns are channeled resources of datasets meaning they inherit permissions from their parent dataset. It is not possible to grant permissions at the table, row or column level. All tables in a dataset share the same permissions. 
what if I want admins or super users to see all the data in a table and others to only see a subset of the data? The answer to this is authorized views. Views provide row or column level permissions to datasets. To create authorized views, create a second data set with different permissions from the first. Add a view to the second dataset that selects the subset of the data you want to expose from the first dataset. In the first dataset, you then have to give the view access to the underlying data. 
Lab: set permissions on BigQuery data sets, use authorized views to provide audiences read-only access to subsets of tables, and use the current user function to limit access to specified rows within a table/view. 

Cloud Storage and IAM permissions: true - Access can be granted to Cloud Storage at the organization, folder, project, or bucket levels. [Correct! In addition to general access, you can also control what level of access members have]. Using IAM permissions alone gives you control over your projects and buckets, but does not give control over individual objects. false -It is possible to remove a permission from a lower level that was granted at a higher level. A user needs permission from both IAM or an ACL in order to access a bucket or object.

storage and BigQuery best practices: true - do not use any personally identifiable information as object names [Storage names often appear in URLs, so any information that is critical to maintaining system or data security should not be used in an object name]. One option to serve content securely to outside users is to use signed URLs [Using signed URLs, content can be securely made available to users who do not have Google accounts]. false - In most cases, you should use Access Control Lists (ACLs) instead of IAM permissions. BigQuery data can be adequately secured using the default primitive roles available in GCP.

BigQuery and its datasets: true - A BigQuery Authorized View allows administrators to restrict users to viewing only subsets of a dataset. BigQuery has its own list of assignable IAM roles [Correct! BigQuery role names are mapped to job functions, such as BigQuery admin or BigQuery Data Viewer.]. false - It is always better to assign BigQuery roles to individuals as this will help to lower operational overhead. Using IAM, you can grant users granular permissions to BigQuery tables, rows and columns. 
